---
layout: post
title:  "BIS 402 Syllabus"
date: 2021-10-27-20:03:00
---

| Course number and section: | Room Number:         | Class Day and Time: |
|----------------------------|----------------------|---------------------|
| BIS402-001                 | Online               | Online              |
| **Instructor**             | Mark McFadden        |                     |
| **E-mail**                 | <mcfaddenm1@nku.edu> |                     |
| **URL**                    | <https://m2.fyi>     |                     |
|                            |                      |                     |

OUR VISION

NKU sees the metropolitan region as representing not just a set of
learning needs to be served but also as a powerful source of knowledge
and experience that can strengthen, enhance, and enrich every dimension
of its educational mission to discover, transmit, apply, and preserve
knowledge.

OUR MISSION

Our primary mission is to educate students from the Northern
Kentucky/Greater Cincinnati metropolitan region to perform effectively
and ethically in a global environment as professionals in business,
public, and social enterprises. We will leverage the partnerships
between students, faculty, and the community to continuously improve the
educational experience of our students and to enhance the integration of
scholarship and service with classroom learning.

NKU's Quality Enhancement Program (QEP)

NKU is concentrating on providing students active learning in their
curriculum and coursework. The active learning component of BIS 402 is
found in the completion of the hands-on exercises that correspond with
the concepts of programming for E-Business found in this course.

CATALOG COURSE DESCRIPTION

Employ technologies, tools, and practices for development of corporate
Intranets and the Internet for information management and electronic
commerce; coverage of Internetworking technologies, site design, content
development languages and components, and data management techniques;
development of web-based sites for business and commercial operations.
Prerequisites: BIS 305 or equivalent; junior standing.

COURSE MATERIALS

There are no required materials for this course. Weekly modules will be
added to Canvas that will include required readings, lectures,
assignments, and/or discussions.

STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES

After completing this course, the student should be able to:

- Understand the current status of e-Business concepts.

- Recognize the key implementation issues along with e-Business system
    design.

- Describe the best practices in e-Business engineering system
    development.

- Evaluate the existing e-Business system with an architectural vision
    and performance perspective

COURSE FORMAT

This course will utilize assigned readings and class lectures as the
primary reference material and requires the active engagement and
participation of all course members. This material will provide you with
a good understanding of important concepts, topics, tools and techniques
in the development and assessment of IT strategy and organizational
resilience practices. You are required to read the assigned reference
material and should pay close attention to the discussion and review
questions, exercises, along with the case studies at the end of the
chapters as applicable. Students are encouraged to actively contribute
to on-line discussions to reinforce the concepts from each article,
chapter and/or lecture.

The degree of learning and success of this course depends on the
preparation and contributions of all BIS 402 course members.

EXPECTATIONS

By registering for this course, it is expected that you allocate a
significant block of time necessary to study, complete all readings,
assignments and contribute to course topic discussions. It is each
student's responsibility to complete assignments on time. Assistance and
instruction will be available via the Microsoft Teams/Zoom real-time
sessions by appointment to provide you with text material and assignment
help and guidance as needed. Students are required to either attend the
concurrent On-Line sessions or listen to the archives and are highly
encouraged to share their questions, insights, and reflections on the
designated course discussion boards.

Note: You are responsible and accountable for any information / material
conveyed and/or discussed during class sessions. You are required to
view and listen to the session recordings and post any questions,
insights, and reflections on the designated course discussion boards.

COURSE COMMUNICATION

The Canvas Learning System and the Microsoft Teams/Zoom real-time
sessions will be used as the primary communication vehicle for
disseminating all course material, announcements, schedules, assignment
handouts, etc. On-line discussion of assignments and course material
will be hosted on the Canvas discussion boards. It is the student’s
responsibility to check the course Canvas web page via the NKU Web site
on a periodic basis to keep up to date on any changes or critical
information. Note: all students are expected to have access to a
computer with working audio speakers and microphone. Both written and
voice discussion board communication methods may be utilized.

COURSE GRADING

**To arrive at a final grade for the course, evaluation of a student's
performance is made as follows.

Each student will be assessed via the following (400 Total Points):

- Weekly Assignments (35% of class grade) - Homework assignments will
    be given to and should be submitted via Canvas corresponding to
    topics covered in class, typically one assignment per week. Late
    assignments may not be accepted, unless pre-approved by the
    instructor. 7 Homework Assignments (20 pts each = 140 pts total)

- Assignment Discussions (17.5% of class grade) – Our work often
    builds on the work of others. You will be required to reflect on
    your assignments and read the reflections from others within this
    course. 7 Assignment Discussion Entries (10 pts each = 70 pts total)

- Final Project (47.5% of class grade) - There will be a final project
    for this course, used to test the students' understanding of all
    concepts presented and discussed during the seven weeks. Each
    student will create a presentation that must be submitted online
    (week 8). Presentation (190 pts total)

Note that:

- Late assignments will not be accepted unless previously approved by
    the instructor prior to the assignment due date.

- Students will receive up to 3 due date extensions for late
    assignments during the semester.

- Note that you are responsible to check for weekly announcements in
    the Announcements section of Canvas as well as email messages sent
    to your NKU email account.

- Note that assignments will NOT be received by attaching to an email
    message.

- Late assignments will be subject to the reduction in points. All
    submitted work should be original. See the Plagiarism section below.

GRADING INFORMATION

The grading system at NKU is based on the following descriptions:

> A represents exceptionally high achievement because of aptitude,
> effort, and intellectual initiative.
>
> B represents high achievement because of ability and effort
>
> C represents average achievement, the minimum expected of a college
> student
>
> D represents minimum passing grade except for courses taken on a
> pass/fail basis.
>
> F indicates failure in a course. Credit in a course where an F was
> earned can be obtained only be repeating the course successfully.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 32%" />
<col style="width: 37%" />
<col style="width: 30%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th colspan="3"><h4 id="grading-scale">Grading Scale</h4></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><h4 id="letter-grade">Letter Grade</h4></td>
<td><h4 id="equal-to-or-greater-than">% Equal to or Greater than</h4></td>
<td><h4 id="grade-point">Grade Point</h4></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>A</td>
<td>93</td>
<td>4.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>A-</td>
<td>90</td>
<td>3.67</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>B+</td>
<td>87</td>
<td>3.33</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>B</td>
<td>83</td>
<td>3.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>B-</td>
<td>80</td>
<td>2.67</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>C+</td>
<td>77</td>
<td>2.33</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>C</td>
<td>73</td>
<td>2.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>C-</td>
<td>70</td>
<td>1.67</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>D+</td>
<td>67</td>
<td>1.33</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>D</td>
<td>60</td>
<td>1.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>F</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>0</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

> ***Grade Appeal:***
>
> Please see the Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities Section V:
> Academic Policies & Processes for any final grade appeal. The
> specifics of the process are detailed in subsection G: Student
> Academic Grade Appeal.
> https://inside.nku.edu/scra/information/students/rights-responsibilities.html

COMMUNICATION WITH PROFESSOR

I will answer email within a 24-hour period. Include the course prefix
and section number (BIS 402-001 etc.) in the subject line of the e-mail
message. As is common with Spam Filters, any messages without subject
lines or with subject lines will be sent to the Spam folder. Students
participating in this course will be notified when I am unavailable for
e-mail.

STUDENT EVALUATION OF INSTRUCTOR AND COURSE

Northern Kentucky University takes Instructor and Course Evaluations
very seriously as an important means of gathering information for the
enhancement of learning opportunities for its students. It is an
important responsibility of NKU students as citizens of the University
to participate in the instructor and course evaluation process. During
the two weeks\* prior to the end of each semester classes, you will be
asked to reflect upon what you have learned in this course, the extent
to which you have invested the necessary effort to maximize your
learning, and the role your instructor has played in the learning
process. It is very important that you complete the online evaluations
with thoughtfully written comments.

Student evaluations of courses and instructors are regarded as strictly
confidential. They are not available to the instructor until after final
grades are submitted, and extensive precautions are taken to prevent
your comments from being identified as coming from you. Students who
complete an evaluation for a particular course (or opt out of doing so
in the evaluation) will be rewarded for their participation by having
access to their course grade as soon as that grade is submitted by the
instructor. On the other hand, any student who does not complete the
course evaluation (or opt out of doing so in the evaluation) should
expect to incur a two-week delay in access to his or her course grade
beyond the university's official date for grade availability. To
complete online evaluations, go to http://eval.nku.edu. Click on
"student login" and use the same USERNAME and PASSWORD as used on
campus.

In addition, you should be aware of:

- Evaluations can affect changes in courses. Evaluations without
    comments are less valuable and less credible than those filled out
    thoughtfully. Comments that are expressed well are more effective
    than those that are not.

- Positive feedback is just as important as criticism. Moreover,
    negative evaluations without any explanation and specifics are not
    especially useful.

- Once grades are submitted, all evaluations are read not only by the
    instructor, but also by the instructor’s department chairperson.

- Evaluations not only provide feedback to your instructor, but also
    provide information to the department chair for use in performance
    evaluations. This information affects reappointments, promotions,
    salaries, and teaching assignments.

OFFICE HOURS

| Day    | Time | Location |
|-----------|-----------|------------------------------|
| Monday    | 7 to 9 PM | In-person or online via Zoom |
| Wednesday | 7 to 9 PM | In-person or online via Zoom |
| Saturday  | 9 to 10 AM| In-person or online via Zoom |

COMMITMENT

**By registering for this course, it is expected that you allocate a
sufficient block of study time necessary to complete all readings, any
assignments, or projects. It is each student’s responsibility to
complete assignments on time. Every effort will be made to have
resources available and provide assistance, should you need it**.**

WITHDRAWAL AND INCOMPLETES

Dependent upon the semester’s academic schedule, students may withdraw
from the class online at myNKU through their advisor or through the
Associate Dean’s office. Incompletes must be requested by the student in
writing and must include a written plan to complete the necessary work
prior to the midpoint of the next full semester.

ATTENDANCE/PARTICIPATION

**Virtual classroom participation is essential to the educational
process and the educational goals of the course. Therefore, the
instructor may lower a student's final grade because of excessive
absences. Students are fully responsible for learning the course content
and material disseminated in the class.

NON-ATTENDANCE POLICY

Faculty may report students who do not attend the first-class meeting of
the semester/session as non-attending if they have not contacted the
faculty member. Faculty are compelled to report students who fail to
attend the first two classes as non-attending if they have not contacted
the faculty member. All non-attendance for the full semester must be
reported by the end of the add/drop date but should be reported as soon
as two classes are missed. For online classes, faculty are compelled to
report students who do not log into Canvas during the first week of
class as non-attending.

*To that end, an announcement will be sent from Canvas to all sections
informing the student that the first required step for the class is to
read the syllabus and reply to the announcement via the Reply link at
the bottom of the initial class announcement confirming that you have
read and understand the syllabus, and therefore the course requirements.
If a reply to this announcement is not posted from you by Friday, August
21st, you will be administratively dropped from the class (see
https://inside.nku.edu/registrar/registration/non-attendance-policy.html).*

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES

The maintenance of academic standards and integrity includes the
obligation not to cheat or plagiarize. A student who uses a dishonest or
deceitful means to obtain a grade is guilty of cheating; a student who
submits another’s work as one’s own without adequate attribution is
guilty of plagiarism. Identical work will earn a grade of zero.

PLAGIARISM

Plagiarism is defined as “copying or imitating the languages, ideas,
thoughts or works of another and passing that off as your own original
work”. This also applies to the student who knowingly allows his or her
work to be copied by another student. Self-Plagiarism is the submission
of the same work for multiple assignments. All the work submitted in
this class should be original work for this class only, and not
submitted in previous courses in our programs. If you have previous work
that you would like to build on or use as a basis for this project, it
must get my approval first.

STUDENT HONOR CODE

This Student Honor Code \[the "Honor Code"\] is a commitment by students
of Northern Kentucky University, through their matriculation or
continued enrollment at the University, to adhere to the highest degree
of ethical integrity in academic conduct. It is a commitment
individually and collectively that the students of Northern Kentucky
University will not lie, cheat, or plagiarize to gain an academic
advantage over fellow students or avoid academic requirements.

The purpose of the Honor Code is to establish standards of academic
conduct for students at Northern Kentucky University and to provide a
procedure that offers basic assurances of fundamental fairness to any
person accused of violations of these rules. Each Northern Kentucky
University student is bound by the provisions of the Honor Code and is
presumed to be familiar with all of its provisions. Students also should
aspire to conduct themselves in a manner that is consistent with the
highest degree of ethical integrity in all matters, whether covered in
the Honor Code or not. The success of this commitment begins in the
diligence with which students uphold the letter and the spirit of the
Honor Code. Students may view the complete honor code at
http://deanofstudents.nku.edu/policies/student-rights.html#policies.

ACCOMMODATIONS DUE TO DISABILITY

The University is committed to making reasonable efforts to assist
individuals with disabilities in their efforts to avail themselves of
services and programs offered by the University. To this end, Northern
Kentucky University will provide reasonable accommodations for persons
with documented qualifying disabilities. If you have a disability and
feel you need accommodations in this course, you must present a letter
to me from the Disability Programs and Services Office (SU 303),
indicating the existence of a disability and the suggested
accommodations. More information can be found at
http://disability.nku.edu.

RESEARCH

From time to time you may be asked to participate in research studies
conducted by other students or faculty. Generally, this data is gathered
through a questionnaire and individuals will not be specifically
identified. These studies will have an appropriate learning context for
the class; none will be psychologically or physically dangerous in
nature. You may decline to participate. Everyone will be debriefed on
the purpose of the study and anyone that wishes may have copies of the
results.

CREDIT HOUR POLICY STATEMENT

In accordance with federal policy, NKU defines a credit hour as the
amount of work represented in the achievement of student learning
outcomes (verified by evidence of student achievement) that reasonably
approximates one hour (50 minutes) of classroom instruction and a
minimum of two hours of out-of-class student work. For every course
credit hour, a typical student should expect to spend at least three
hours per week of concentrated attention on course-related work
including, but not limited to, class meeting time, reading, reviewing,
organizing notes, studying and completing assignments. At least an
equivalent amount of time is expected for other academic activities such
as online courses, laboratory work, internships, practica, studio work
and other academic work leading to the award of credit hours.

Estimates of the time required for a typical student to complete course
expectations are as follows: 3 credit hours = 135 hours minimum.

DIVERSITY

Diversity describes an inclusive community of people with varied human
characteristics, ideas, and world views related, but not limited, to
race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender, religion, color, creed,
national origin, age, disability, socio-economic status, geographical
region, or ancestry. Institutions that value diversity provide a
supportive environment that respects those human differences. It is our
responsibility as citizens of the NKU community to promote and value a
campus environment and classroom climate that is safe, fair, respectful,
and free from prejudice.

ALLIED ZONE

> I am a member of the Allied Zone community network, and I am available
> to listen and support you in a safe and confidential manner. As an
> Ally, I can help you connect with resources on campus to address
> problems you may face that interfere with your academic and social
> success on campus as it relates to issues surrounding sexual
> orientation and gender identity. My goal is to help you be successful
> and to maintain a safe and equitable campus.
>
> **Name / Pronoun**
>
> My gender pronouns are *she, her, hers, him, he, and his*. I will
> gladly honor your request to address you by an alternate name and/or
> gender pronouns from what is contained in NKU’s student records.
> Please advise me of these early in the semester so that I may make
> appropriate changes to my records.

SEXUAL MISCONDUCT

Northern Kentucky University is committed to fostering a safe and
inclusive educational and work environment free from sexual misconduct,
including sexual assault, non-consensual sexual contact, non-consensual
sexual intercourse, sexual exploitation, sexual harassment, dating and
intimate partner violence, relationship and domestic violence, stalking
and gender-based bullying. For more information please see:
https://inside.nku.edu/titleix/sexual-misconduct-policy.html

OBSERVANCE OF RELIGIOUS HOLIDAYS FOR CLASS ATTENDANCE

NKU values diverse religious perspectives and beliefs and recognizes
that religious practice is for many individuals an important element of
personal identity, intellectual development and psychological
well-being, and, in many cases, is inseparable from cultural identity.
As the diversity of our community has increased, additional religious
holidays now affect a significant number of students. Consistent with
our commitment to creating a diverse and inclusive community, Northern
Kentucky University believes that every reasonable effort should be made
to allow members of the NKU community to observe their holidays without
jeopardizing the fulfillment of their academic obligations. NKU students
who are unable to attend classes or participate in any examination,
study or work requirement on some particular day(s) because of his or
her religious belief must submit a formal request to the instructor
within 3 weeks of the beginning of the semester so appropriate
arrangements can be made.

SYLLABUS CHANGES

Dates and assignments documented in this syllabus are subject to change
at the discretion of the instructor. Every effort will be made to
provide any changes to the class in writing via the Announcements
section of Canvas for the course. Verbal notification at a class
meeting, however, will constitute sufficient notice.

UNIVERSITY CALENDAR

[SPRING: **7-WEEKS** 1 \| JANUARY 10 - FEBRUARY
25](https://inside.nku.edu/registrar/calendars/spring-2022.html#pg-1329958325)

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 11%" />
<col style="width: 88%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><strong>1/10 Mon</strong></th>
<th><strong>Classes begin</strong></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>1/13 Thurs</td>
<td>Last day to register or enter a course<br />
Last day to drop with a 100% tuition adjustment<br />
Last day to change grading option (letter grade, audit, pass-fail)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>1/17 Mon</strong></td>
<td><strong>Martin Luther King Day – University Closed/No Classes</strong><br />
Last day to drop a course without a grade appearing on a student's transcript<br />
Last day to drop a course with a 50% tuition adjustment</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>1/31 Mon</td>
<td>Faculty begin submitting mid-term grades</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2/2 Wed</td>
<td>Midterm</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2/4 Fri</td>
<td>9:00 A.M.: Faculty deadline for submitting mid-term grades</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2/7 Mon</td>
<td>Last day to drop a course with a grade of W</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2/25 Fri</td>
<td>Last day of classes</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>3/1 Tues</td>
<td>9:00 A.M.: Faculty deadline for grade submission</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

